# Swift Apprentice - Chapter 13: Classes

Classes are named types with properties, much like structs. However, classes are reference types, as opposed to value types and have very different capabilities and benefits than their structure conterparts. 

Structures are generally used to represent values, while classes are generally used to represent objects. 

## Creating classes

You MUST utilize an initializer to declare a class. Classes do not come with a memberwise initializer automatically. 

## Reference types

Instances of classes are mutable objects. Classes are referenct types, so a variable of a class type doesn't sotre an actual instance -- it stores a referenct to a location in memory that stores the instance. 

## The heap vs. the stack

When you create a reference type using a class, the system often stores the actual instance in a region of memory known as the heap that has a dynamic lifetime. Instances of value types typically residde in a region of memory called the stack that lives only as long as the current scope. 

## Ojbect identity

The === operator allows you to check if the identity of one object is equal to the identity of another.

## Methods and mutability

The keyword mutating is not required in class methods because the methods mutate the underlying object and not the reference itself. The keyword mutatin gmarks structure methods that can can change stored properties. This keyword is not used iwth classes because a class is just a reference to some storage that another client could share and mutate. 

## Mutability and constants

Any individual member of a class can be protected from modification throgh the use of constants. Still, because reference types are not treated as values, they are not protected as a whole from mutation. 

You can extend classes using extensions as well! 

