# Swift Apprentice - Chapter 14: Advanced Classes

Class inheritance is one of the most important features of classes and enables polymorphism. 

Subclassing is a powerful tool, but it's goot to know when to subclass. Subclass when you want to extend an object and could benefit from an "is-a" relationship between subclass and superclass, but be mindful of the inherited state and deep class hierarchies. 

The keyword override makes it clear when you are overriding a method in a subclass. 

The keyword final can be used to prevent a class from being subclassed. 

Swift classes use two-phase initialization as a safety measure to ensure all stored properties are initialized before they are used. 

Class instances have lifecycles which their reference counts control. 

Automatic reference counting, or ARC, handles reference counting for you automatically, but it's essential to watch out for retain cycles. 

## Introducing inheritance

A class inheriting from another class is known as a subclass or a derived class. The class it inherits is know as a superclass or a base class. A Swift class can inherit from only one class, a concept known as single inheritance. There is no limit to the depth of subclassing, meaning you can subclass from a class that is also a subclass. A chain of subclasses is called class heirarchy. Superclasses are also called parent classes of their child classes. 

## Polymorphism

Polymorphism is a programming language's ability to treat an object differently based on context. Functions, methods, etc. that accept a Person parameter, for example, can utilize the oboePlayer class since it inherits from the Person base class. However, the function can only observe the elements of oboePlayer that are defined in the person base class. It cannot see any additional parameters. 

## Runtime hierarchy checks

Swift provides the as casting-operator to treat a property or a variable as another type. 

If you have functions with the same names that accept parameter types which are superclasses of a given child class, the first subclass up the stack would be utilized unless you specified which class you wanted to cast as. 

## Inheritance, methods and overrides

Subclasses receive all properties and methods defined in their superclass, plus any additional properties and methods the subclass defines for itself. Subclasses are additive. 

Besides creating their own methods, subclasses can override methods defined in their superclass. You must include the override keyword if you wish to override a superclass's method within a subclass. 

## Introducing Super

Although it isn't always required, it's often important to call super when overriding a method in Swift.You should try and call super early in the override. 

## Preventing inheritance

Marking a class final tells the compiler to prevent any classes from inheriting from the class. You can also mark methods as final to prevent downstream overrides. 

## Inheritance and class initialization & Two Phase initialization

When a class is inheriting from a parent class, you have to be sure to initialize all of the parent class' parameters and utilize the super initializer to pull these parameters down. Additionall, the order of when you initialize the subclass' parameters and the superclass' parameters with super matters due to the concept of two phase initialization. 

## Required and convenience initializers

You might decide a certain initializer is important enough that you want it to be available to all subclasses. This can be accomplished by prepending the required keyword to an initializer. 

Override keywords aren't needed with required initializers. 

The compiler forces a convenience initializer to call a non-convenience initializer instead of handling the initialization of stored properties itself. You might want to mark an initializer as convenience if you only use that initializer as an easy way to initialize an object. 

A designated initializer must call a designated initializer from it's immediate superclass. 

A convenience initializer must call another initializer from the same class. 

A convenience initializer must ultimately call a designated initializer. 

## When and why to subclass

The single responsibility principle states that any entity should have a single concern. Having more components with a single responsibility makes it easier to mix and match your components to build functionality. 

## Leveraging strong types

Subclassing creates an additional type. With Swift's type system you can declare properties ore behavior based on objects that are student-athletes, not regular students.

## Shared base classes

You can subclass a shared base class multiple times by classes that have mutually exclusive behavior. 

 ## Extensibility

 You can subclass classes from source code you're using to customize them to fit your needs. 

 ## Identity

 Classes and class hierarchies model what objects are. If your goal is to share behavior, what objects can do, more often than not, you should prefer protocols over subclassing. 

 ## Understanding the class lifecycle

 Swift automatically counts references to a given object and cleans the object up when the reference count drops to zero. 

 ## Deinitialization

A deinitializer is a special method on classes that runs when an object's reference count reachers zero but before Swift removes the object from memory. 

deinit isn't required and is automatically invoked by Swift. 

## Retain cycles and weak references

 Retain cycles lead to bugs known as memory leaks. With a memory leak, memory isn't freed up even though it's practical lifecycle has ended. Retain cycles are the most common cause of memory leaks. There is a way to have classes reference themselves without being prone to retain cycles. This is accomplished by making the reference _weak_. 

 
