# Swift Apprentice - Chapter 15: Enumerations

An enumeration is a list of related values that define a common type and let yo uwork with values in a type safe way. Enumerations are related, compiler checked values. 

Enumerations can have methods and computed properties, all while acting as a convenient state machine. 

The commonly accepted best practice ist to start each member value witnin an enum with a lowercase first letter, just like a property. They can be collapsed with a single case statement that separates member values by commas. 

Enumerations are particularly useful in switch statements. 

Another advantage of enumerations is that you'll never have a typo in you rmember values. Xcode provides code completion. 

You can specify that an alternative type backs an enumeration's members in the enumeration declaration. Further, you can choose the values that are assigned to members using the assignment operator. The rawValue property is a handy way to access these raw values yourself. 

Enumeration initializers with the rawValue: parameter are failable initializers that return a nil if things go wrong. In other cases, an optional will be returned. These have to be unwrapped if you wish to use them in your program. 

Enumerations with string raw value types can be utilized in building file names with strings. Generally good idea for icons, etc. which are a set number of values. 

## Associated values

Associated values let you associate a custom value or values with each enumeration case. 

## Enumeration as a state machine

Enumerations are examples of state machines, meaning they can only ever be a single value at a time, never more. 

## Iterating through all cases

When you conform to the CaseIterable protocol, your enumeration gains a class method called allCases: enum Pet: CaseIterable. 

## Enumerations without any cases

Enumerations with no cases are sometimes referred to as uninhabited types or bottom types. 

## Optionals

Optionals are enumerations with .none and .some cases! 






