# Swift Apprentice - Chapter 10: Structures

## First structure

Structures are named types you can define and use in your code. Structures are value types, which means their values are copied on assignment. 

Structures begin with the struct keyword followed by the name of the type and a pair of curly braces. Everything between the curly braces is a member of the struct. 

## Accessing members

You use dot syntax to access members of a struct. You can access members of members using multiple dots. You can update members of the struct if they are variables. 

However, if you do not declare the structure itself as a variable, you will not be able to update variable members of the struct. 

## Introducing methods

Just like other members of a structure, you can use dot syntax to access a method. 

## Structures as values

 Structures are value types. A value type is a type whose instances are copied on assignment. This copy-on-assignment behavior means that when a is assigned to be, the value of a is copied into b. Later, when changing the value of a, the value of b stays the same. = indicates assignment, not equal to. 

 ## Structures everywhere

 Many standard Swift types are structures. The value semantics of structures provide many other advantages over their reference type counterparts that make them ideal for representing core Swift types. 

 ## Conforming to a protocol

 Placing protocols after a colon when defining a struct, you signal that the struct conforms to the protocols. 

 Protocols contain a set of requirements that conforming types must satisfy. Conforming to a protocol means you can call the protocol's properties on any instance of any type that conforms to the protocol. 

 