# Swift Apprentice - Chapter 18: Access Control, Code Organization & Testing

## Key points

Access control modifiers are private, fileprivate, internal, public, and open. The internal access level is the default. 

Modifiers control your code's visible interface and can hide complexity. 

Private and fileprivate protect code from being accessed by code in other types or files, respectively. 

Public and open allow code access from another module. The open modifier additionally lets you override from other modules. 

When you apply access modifiers to extensions, all members of the extension receive that access level. 

Extensions that mark protocol conformance cannot have access modifiers. 

The keyword available can be used to evolve a library by deprecating APIs. 

You use unit tests to verify your code works as expected. 

@testable import lets you test internal API. 

## Introduction

You declare Swift types with properties, methods, initializers and other nested types. These elements make up the interface to your code or the API. 

Swift solves the problem of API management and design using access control, which lets you control your code's viewable interface. Access control allows you to hide complexity from the user. 

Preventing direct access to the internal state and keeping the invariant valid is a fundamental software design concept known as encapsulation.

## Private

The private access modifier restricts access to the entity it is defined in and any nested type within it -- also known as the "lexical scope". Extensions on the type within the same source file can also access the entity. 


