# Swift Apprentice - Chapter 16: Protocols

Unlike other named types, protocols don't define anything you instantiate directly. Instead, they define an interface or blueprint that actual concrete types conform to. With a protocol, you define a common set of properties and behaviors that concrete types go and implement. 

## Introducing protocols

Protocols don't contain any implementation. You use protocols to enforce methods and properties on other types. 

## Protocol syntax

A protocol can be adopted by a class, struct, or enum and when another type adopts a protocol, it's required to implement the methods and properties defined in the protocol. 

Once a type implements all members of a protocol, the type is said to conform to the protocol. 

When defining properties in a protocol, you must explicitly mark them as get or get set, somewhat similar to how you declare computed properties. 

## Implementing properties

Properties in protocols come with a get and possibly a set requirement and that a conforming type must conform to at least these requirements. 

Protocols don't care how you implement their requirements as long as you implement them. Your choices for implementing a get requirement are: 

- A constant stored property
- A variable stored property
- A read-only computed property
- A read-write computed property

Your choices for implementing both a get and a set property are limited to a variable stored property or a read-write computed property. 

## Implementing multiple protocols

A class can only inherit from a single class -- this is the property of "single inheritance". By contrast, a class, structure or enumeration can conform to as many protocols as you'd like. Protocols support multiple conformances. 

## Requiring reference semantics

Protocols can be adopted by both value types and reference types. Making a protocol conform to the AnyObject protocol constraint indicates that only classes my adopt this protocol. If you're designing a protocol adopted exclusively by classes, it's best to request that Swift uses reference semantics when using this protocol as a type. 

