# Swift Apprentice - Chapter 12: Methods

## Method refresher

Methods are functions that reside in a structure. 

## Comparing methods to computed properties

With computed properties you can run code from inside of structures. Methods accomplish the same task, but properties hold values that you can get and set while methods perform work. 

## Turning a function into a method

You can simply move a function inside of a struct to make it a method. 

## Introducing self

self is the reference to the instance, but it generally isn't needed unless you're disambiguating a piece of code. 

## Introducing initializers

Initializers allow you to assign values for all of the stored properties in the structure. It never returns a value. Its task is solely to initialize a new instance. Initializers need all properties to be set before the instance is ready to use. 

## Default values and initializers

Initializers aren't required to assign default values in the struct. If you define a struct without an initializer, but assign default values, both initializer styles are still available to you. 

## Introducing mutating methods

Methods in structures cannot change the values of the instance without being marked as mutating. Whatever happens in the mutating mathod will impact everything that relies on the type externally. 

## Type methods

Like type properties, you can use type methods to access data across all instances. To define a type method, you prefix it with the static modifier. The structure is said to act as a namespace when bundling many type methods into a structure. 

## Adding to an existing structure with extensions

Using the extension key word, you can add to a namespace without editing the original source code. 

Adding an init to an extension allows you to maintain the automatically generated memberwise initializers. 




